Alright, let's get
into testing the items in the cart.
So we want to test the cart himself.
Cart himself.
We want to test the cart itself, as well as the add
to cart button as well as the remove
from cart button, so let's start with the cart.
We're gonna open up our files here, and we're gonna go
into our test folder and make a new file
called cart.test.js, and you probably guessed it.
We're gonna go ahead and take a top from one
of these old tests, paste it in, we're gonna need mount,
wait, toJSON, MockedProvider, as well as we need our cart,
and let's open our cart to JS.
Do we have any, what have we got in here?
We've got a local state query,
and we've got our current user query.
We need both of those things.
We need the local state query from the cart component.
Then we want the current user query.
That's gotta come from our user component.
Okay, and I think that is good.
Now, before we get into this, real quick,
I'm just gonna show you the three queries we have here.
So current user, then we have our local state query,
which is our cart open, and then we also have
our toggle cart mutation, which flips it from true to false.
I have not found a good way to test local state mutations,
even after talking to the Apollo devs.
It seems a little bit out of reach, a little bit,
way more involved than it's worth for doing
this kind of thing, so I do not have a way
to test clicking that button and mutating it,
and the reason why is that the resolver
for our local state is in our actual,
it's part of our our client creation,
and we're using a mocked client here,
which does not have those custom resolvers in it,
so we are not going to be testing that one,
but we we'll be testing the local state,
which we'll feed it some data
as well as our current user query.
So let's go ahead and jump into here.
First start making some mocks.
So an array.
First mark is going to be a request.
Query, and that is our current user query.
The result from that, I guess that is in here.
The data, me.
Me is going to be a fake user, dot dot dot.
Alright we gotta import that fake user.
Import fakeUser from our lib, testUtils,
and we're gonna spread it into there, and then,
we're also going to make a cart with one item in it.
We'll say fakeCartItem, and then we'll also need
to import that fakeCartItem from the same testUtils.
Looks good, comma there.
Then we also want to write one for the local state query,
so we'll say the request is the query, local state query,
and the result, some data, cart open is going to be true.
Now we'll go ahead and describe it.
We'll do our first it renders, and it matches snappy.
Make that async.
And here we'll const wrapper
is equal to mount, mocked provider.
Inside of that we'll have our cart.
Mocked provider needs some mocks.
we'll wait and wrapper.update.
Now it will expect the toJSON wrapper.find.
We're gonna find the header, and we're just gonna match
the snapshot of that to match snapshot, and give that a run.
We'll open up our cart.snap.
Oh that's cart count.
Cart.snap.
We're checking out our header, looks good,
h3, Miss Coleman's cart.
You have one item in your cart, that's good.
You can also check that the amount of cart items
are being displayed properly, so expect the wrapper.find,
we'll look for cart item, and then we'll say
toHaveLength of one.
Looks like that one is working as well, so that is our cart.
Not too much else to test there,
since this just takes in data and renders it out.
What we are gonna do now is the adding and the removing
of items from cart is where we're going to start
to get into some a little bit more advanced tests.
Let's make a new file, we'll do add
to cart first, so open up tests.
AddToCart.test.JS.
Go ahead and take everything you imported
from cart.JS and put into addToCart.
We're also going to need
the Apollo consumer from React Apollo.
We're going to need the add to cart button,
as well as the add to cart mutation
from our add to cart component,
and that looks like everything we need.
Let's cook up some mocks.
We'll make a fake user,
and we'll put an empty cart on there.
What did I goof up here?
Oh, data is an object.
Beautiful.
So, when you have a current user, you're going
to get me with a fake user and an empty cart.
We also have another request and response query
is the add to cart mutation, and the variables
for that one are going to be the ID of "abc123".
The result from that is going to have some data.
Add to cart, and we'll spread a fake cart item
and then just override the quantity,
which is going to be one.
I'll go ahead and write our test.
Describe the add to cart button.
First thing we wanna say:
it renders and matches the snapshot.
Inside of that we'll have our add to cart,
and the ID of that is going to be "abc123".
♪ Await, await ♪
♪ Wrapper.update ♪
Now, we can just go ahead and render that whole thing out
and just make sure that it matches our snapshot,
so expect, toJSON, wrapper.find, button, to match snapshot.
Looks like it wrote the snapshot.
Let's look at our add to cart dot snappy, and that's it.
Button disabled, false on click is a function,
and then it just renders out the words add to cart.
Next thing we wanna check is it adds
an item to cart when clicked.
So we can go ahead and take this
base wrapper here, paste it in.
We also need the Apollo store or the Apollo client
in order to check if the item was added to our cart,
so we'll say Apollo consumer.
Inside of that you want a arrow function.
Just a client.
Then we'll say Apollo client is equal to the client.
Then we return our add to cart button here.
Gotta make sure that we actually have that Apollo client,
so let Apollo client appear, just like we did the last one.
So we have our Apollo client, we mount it with the consumer,
we expose the client and bring it outside of the scope here
to a higher scope, which we put in the variable
and then we return our add to cart with the abc ID.
Then we'll do our standard waiting,
then update, then we'll grab the current person,
so const me is equal to apolloclient.query,
and then we will, actually that is returns a promise,
so we'll await that, and the query
that we are going to read is the current user query.
Then we're just console log me, see what we're working with.
We got undefine.
Let's just see what we've got here.
Let's just say response, console log the response.
We won't destructure it just yet.
There we go, there we go.
Response.data.me, this is the actual current user.
You see that their cart is empty,
so let's try to destructure that into me.
Data, me, and then we'll console log me.
There we go, now we see an actual user,
so at this point we expect the cart to be empty,
so expect me.cart to have length of zero.
Passing, good, then we will add an item to the cart,
so say wrapper.find, look for the button,
and we will simulate a click on that button, right?
This is the add to cart button,
so we're gonna simulate someone clicking it.
Then we will wait for a sec, then we're going
to check if the item is in the cart,
so check if the item is in the cart,
and we can just duplicate this query right here,
except we will call this me2, by the way,
if you don't feel like the destructuring like this,
another way you could do it is just like this, response,
and say const me2 is equal to response dot data dot me.
That's exactly the same way, but I'm gonna keep
that nifty structuring, and at this point,
if we console log me2, little error here,
no more mocked responses.
I think the clicking of this button is not working,
so let's just comment this out real quick.
It's still telling us that there's no more mocked responses,
so it's telling us that we don't have something
for add to cart with the variable "abc123",
and usually that is because we did not export it.
Let's open our addToCart.JS, and yeah, look at the bottom.
We didn't export that query, so we'll grab
this mutation, export, add to cart mutation.
Ideally it would throw better error.
Like this is not actually a query
other than instead of telling us
that we didn't have it, but that's our fault.
There we go, looks like it's working.
Let's jump back here.
Await, wait, grab the value and see what me2 is equal to.
Getting a bit of an error, no more mocked responses.
I believe, so here we are querying the current user.
The first time that it gets queried, it gets this,
and then the second time that it gets queried,
it doesn't have a mock query, so we actually have
to add in a secondary mock for the current user.
Go ahead and take that first query and just duplicate it,
and then what we're gonna do is in the cart,
we're just going to add a fake cart item, and then that way,
when it gets queried the second time,
you'll see that the cart has a fake cart item in it,
and we can go right here, and expect the me2.cart
to have length of one, and we can just check also,
me dot cart, the first item in the cart, dot ID,
to be, omg123, and we can also check
that the quantity is equal to three.
Looks like everything is passing.
One other thing I should note is
that here we are faking the reply, so apolloClient.query,
and we are running the current user query,
and the we're just mocking what gets returned.
If you wanted to only mock the current user the first time
and then actually check if it got added to the users cart,
that would be an update function
because the way that we are refreshing the users cart
in our add to cart is we're simply
just re-fetching the current user query.
Another way to do it would be to provide an update function,
something like this, where we say this.update,
and then you would add an update like we've done previously
inside of this component, which would manually modify
the Apollo store, and if that was the case,
then you wouldn't need to have two mocks.
You only one mock, and then you would be able
to query the client to check what is in it.
So let's get rid of that one.
We'll bring it back to the re-fetch query.
It's just a little bit simpler to have to deal with it.
Other things we want to do is we want
to check our loading state, so we say
it changes from add to adding when clicked.
Go ahead and mount our wrapper.
Add to cart, the ID is "abc123".
Await, wait, wrapper.update.
Then we'll expect the wrapper.txt to contain add to cart.
Good, passes, then we'll simulate a click, so wrapper.find,
button, dot simulate, click, click, and then we'll expect,
actually just duplicate this line here,
but now it's still going to say adding to cart.
It looks like I'm actually skipping, yeah,
it looks like I'm skipping that one
'cause this one is on it.only.
So let's actually run this one,
see if it passes, no more mocked responses,
and that's 'cause I forgot to pass the mocks.
Mocks, the errors on this are not great.
It would be nice to be like hey,
you didn't pass us any mocks instead of,
like an easy PropType on the mock provider
would tell us hey, you never passed any mocks.
Last one we want to do is the remove from cart button.
Let's go ahead and do the same song and dance.
Go into our test, make a new file.
RemoveFromCart.test.JS, and I'm gonna go ahead
and grab all the imports from our
add to cart test, paste them in.
Instead of importing add to cart,
we will import the RemoveFromCart component,
and let's triple check we also exported it.
No, we didn't export it, so let's export the remove
from cart mutation, and then go back to our tests
and import that from the component itself.
We'll go code up some mocks.
Const mocks is equal to an array, and in this case
we actually are only going to need
to code up one current user query because of,
how I talked about earlier, because the remove from cart
mainly will remove it via an update function,
we don't ask have to mock it because it's actually
going to do the heavy lifting for us,
so we're gonna go into remove from cart here.
The first mock is going to be a request of a query,
the current user query, and the result...
has some data where me is equal to a dot dot dot, fake user.
And the cart is going to have a fake cart item inside of it.
Let's actually pass a fake ID, so the ID is "abc123",
and then the orders, actually we don't need
to pass our orders because it's already blank.
The second mock is the response
from the remove from cart query, so request,
query, remove from cart mutation,
with the variables of ID "abc123", and the response
is going to be some data, where the remove from cart.
That is a typename, of cart item and ID of "abc123".
Alright, that's looking good, so what's going to happen
is that we are going to query the current user.
We're gonna check that there's an item in the cart,
then were going to run the remove from cart mutation
with "abc123", and then we're going
to query the current user again
and check that there cart is actually empty,
and the reason why we don't need a secondary mock
is because we are manually removing it
from the cache with an update function
instead of going back to the server and refreshing
the current user like we did in the add to cart.
So let's go and describe our test now.
First we'll do a check if it renders and matches snapshot.
And we'll simply just take a quick snapshot.
Expect, toJSON, wrapper.find, button,
to match snapshot, looks like it's working.
Let's check our remove from cart snapshot,
and there's our button with a little x
rendering out inside of it, good.
Just gonna close everything else.
Next we want to check that it removes the item from cart.
We're gonna do the same thing with the Apollo client,
where we're going to store it up here.
Then we'll mount it.
Actually we can go to our add to cart test,
and just grab that same code that we did right here,
paste it in here, instead of returning add to cart,
we'll return remove from cart, then we'll go ahead
and fire off that initial query,
so const response is equal to await, apolloClient.query,
and then the query is going to be the current user query.
And let's just console log the response, and you see,
here we have the current user,
and we should have an item in the cart.
We can write a little expect for that.
Expect, response dot data dot me dot cart
to have length of one.
Pass, very good.
We can expect me dot cart, we'll grab the first thing
from the car and check the price, to be 5,000.
Failed, oh it's the cart item dot item dot price
because there's an item inside of your cart.
Looks like it's working.
Okay, so we know that the initial query went fine.
Then we're going to simulate the clicking
of the remove button, so wrapper.find,
button, dot simulate, click.
We'll wait, and then we will read the current user again,
so const, response two is equal to,
just duplicate this again.
And then console log response two,
see what we're working with.
I see, looks like we're getting an error:
not implemented window.alert, and if we open up
our remove from cart, there's obviously an error happening
in remove from cart, and then we're catching the error
and trying to alert it, so I think we
can actually mock alert, just to make sure
that action never happens in our test.
I think just say global.alert is equal to jest.fn.
Yep, that, I think we can also,
global.alert equals console.log.
Ah that's kind of interesting,
so here we don't have alert, which is happening
on the server, so if we globally replace the name alert
to counsole.log, it'll just replace it
with a console log when we're running in tester
on the server side, so that's probably even better
than a mock function 'cause we can actually see
what's happening, and the error is no more mocked responses,
which there we always get from the mutation,
remove from cart the variables "abc123",
so let's just back this up quick,
and I think it has to do with this button clicking.
Yeah, so the error actually has nothing
to do with this query.
It's the clicking of the button
which is going to trigger the update.
No more mocked responses.
Let's clean this up first.
This, remove from cart on line 32 and 35
are console logging something.
32, 35.
Okay, now we got this error.
No more mocked responses for the query mutation
remove from cart.
I always call it, It's result, not response.
This is where something like typescript
would really help me out in those common errors.
I don't know if that would be the error though.
And it's just a little space, dummy.
I had a space there.
I gotta save that, good.
We should be able to go back here and expect a response
two dot data dot me dot cart to have length of zero,
'cause we deleted the item.
Give it a save, check our test.
And it's passing, good,
so that is all the tests related to our cart.
Let's flip over to some of the order processing tests.